hi everyone welcome to feast in the
Middle East my name is Blanche and I'm
going to show you how to cook
middle-eastern food fast easy and the
modern way now how do I do that I'm
going to show you shortcuts today we're
going to talk about a salad called
fattoush now fattoush is actually an
Arab word that means pieces of something
little bits of something so in this case
in this salad we're going to use bits of
bread pita bread that we're going to
bake and form into croutons for the
salad so it's kind of like a bread and
vegetable salad it's kind of close to
panzanella which is Italian version of
this salad so with that said we are
going to start with the veggies with
this salad you want to use vegetables
that are in season right now I happen to
have some amazing tomatoes and cucumbers
so we're going to add about two
cucumbers that already slice these are
the Persian style cucumbers which don't
have the big seeds oops I should
probably take out the cutlery here
traditionally the salad uses green bell
pepper but I love red so I'm going to
put red bell pepper in here
so the salt is going to have tons of
vitamin C and these are the tomatoes for
my backyard so I have about three small
chopped tomatoes you could use Roma or
beefsteak whatever kind of tomatoes you
like and then for the herbs this is
really key for this salad I have some
finely chopped parsley about a handful
of chopped parsley 1/2 a cup probably
and I have another 1/4 cup or 1/3 cup of
chopped mint now this is actually the
basil of the Middle East Italians like
to use basil we like to use mint so
that's how it's a lot different from
panzanella so we're going to use some
mint and to give it a nice fresh taste
we're going to put some green onions
probably about three chopped you might
be thinking this is kind of close to
tabouleh which is in another one of my
videos it's kind of different because
the vegetables are a lot bigger and we
use the bread which I'll show you how
I'm going to prepare in a few now this
is I use purple onion this is
traditionally what's used not white
onion but purple I think this really
makes a difference
in this salad I use about 1/2 of a 1 and
about 1 clove of garlic that's been
chopped you could use more if you want
but I have about 1 clove that's been
chopped
ok so this is the basis of this salad
it's beautiful and colorful so far I
haven't even started with the dressing
but what we're going to do is talk about
the croutons of the salad which comes
from pita bread because that's what we
like to eat in the Middle East a lot of
pita bread but a lot of it goes stale so
this was a great way to think of how
another use for stale pita bread instead
of throwing it away they came up with
this so I have whole-wheat pita bread
because I like to use whole wheat if
you're a low-carb person you can use
sprouted tortillas if you want for a
change so I have a whole wheat pita
bread that's been cut into squares and
actually stale bread works better it
turns out crispier in the oven and I'm
going to put actually a little bit of
garlic powder too to season it and salt
so here's some salt just put some on
there I have some garlic powder in here
I believe yes I do so here's some garlic
powder just a little sprinkle you don't
want to drown the stuff in garlic powder
and some olive oil about two tablespoons
now traditionally this salad was made by
deep-frying the bread but what is the
point of eating the salad if you are
going to deep fry the bread right I mean
you want this to be a healthy salad so
this is my adaptation my modern
adaptation of the salad and it actually
don't sacrifice flavor so I'm just
stirring this up and I'm just going to
put this in a pan and I'm going to bake
it until it's browned and crispy so here
we are we're going to put this in a nice
sheet and I have the oven set for 400
degrees and it only takes about 6
minutes to cook up nice and brown so I'm
going to just put this in the oven right
now
okay so my croutons are nice and crispy
now you can use store-bought pita chips
if you want but why bother if you can
make it so quickly and easily at home a
lot of other times those pita chips have
a lot of funky oils in there that I
wouldn't want putting it in my food and
they also put too much sodium so this
way I can control how much sodium how
much fat goes into my croutons so that's
that now we're going to go back to the
salad we're going to make the dressing
it's just so easy it's ridiculous
basically I've got the juice of one
lemon already squeezed into this bowl
I'm going to add about two tablespoons
of olive oil and to that I'm going to
add some Mac now so Mac is that
beautiful purple spice that's made from
a berry and it gives it a nice tangy
flavor so I'm going to add that and I'm
just going to whisk it doesn't take long
I don't need any fancy contraptions this
is this is a salad dressing folks it
doesn't get simpler than this so the
sumac is really what makes this salad a
lot different than tabouleh as well so
anyway we're going to add this to the
vegetables look how gorgeous this is and
it smells so good it's got a really nice
fresh flavor and now we're just going to
add some salt to taste and then finally
we're going to add some of the croutons
so I'm just going to grab a handful toss
it in and it makes a beautiful hearty
salad it can be a complete meal if you
add some kidney beans garbanzo beans
chicken whatever kind of protein you
like and it makes a beautiful complete
meal and it's really pretty to look at
thank you so much for joining me here on
feasts in the Middle East to learn more
about my recipes you could go to feast
in the Middle East Calm subscribe to my
youtube channel you could also join me
on Facebook and Twitter until next time
stop in